Now, my theme is guard against every sort of greed.
Jehovah, lovingly, gave counsel to Jeremiah's secretary, Barrett,
to stop seeking great things for himself.
Now, what were those great things? Well, we don't know for sure.
Perhaps prominence or material things are both.
But what bad quality was developing in Barrett's heart that Jehovah saw?
Greed. And the insight book defines greed as inordinate or rapacious desire.
The dictionary says it's a selfish, excessive desire for more of something such as money than is needed.
So in effect, Jehovah was telling Barrett, stop being greedy.
And in extended application, Jehovah tells us the same thing.
Now, echoing Jehovah's counsel to Barrett is what Jesus tells us if you'll open up to Luke 12.
And let's read our theme scripture here.
Luke 12 verse 15.
Seminar counsel from Jesus.
Then he, that is Jesus, said to them.
Keep your eyes open and guard, now notice, against every sort of greed.
Because even when a person has an abundance, his life does not result from the things he possesses.
Now, what makes it a challenge, though, for us to guard against every sort of greed as Jesus counsel?
Well, our three great enemies.
In fact, let's discuss each of these and how it makes it a challenge.
Now, first, our imperfect flesh.
At Genesis 8.21, Jehovah said the inclination of the heart of man is bad from his youth.
And one form of badness is greed.
This tendency toward greed becomes manifest very early.
For example, as we see little toddlers grab things and hold them tightly.
Mine, mine, mine.
See, that greed is starting to manifest, isn't it?
When people look at a little toddler, they may say, what a cute little boy.
Or he has his mother's eyes, his father's nose.
But they never invariably say, look at that little toddler, what an unselfish little toddler.
No, it takes a lot of effort, doesn't it?
To teach that little one to be unselfish like Jehovah.
But now, what about our second great enemy, Satan?
What was Satan's downfall?
It was greed.
He allowed greedy desire for something that belonged to Jehovah alone to develop in his heart.
And what was that greed for worship?
And he wants his downfall to be our downfall.
He wants to ensnare us in greed.
So he tries to magnify, intensify our wrong tendency to be greedy.
And if you think about it, how was Satan able to entrap the perfect woman of Eve?
He entrapped her in greed.
He got her to crave desire what belonged to God alone, see.
In effect, he said to her, eating of all the trees of the garden minus one tree is not good enough.
You should crave that one tree that has not been given to you.
In fact, let me please illustrate how greedy Satan made Adam and Eve, how greedy they were.
I'd like you to imagine that you have guests staying in your home.
And you say, now, I really want you to make yourself at home while you're here.
You take them into the kitchen.
You open the refrigerator, all kinds of food here.
The cabinets, the pantry.
Everything you could imagine that you would want to eat.
It's yours. Help yourself. Don't even ask.
But then you pull out one little drawer.
And you say, now, I've set aside some items for a later occasion.
Please, it's very important.
Do not eat from this one drawer.
But you'll find other items just like in the drawer, in the pantry, in the cabinets.
You'll have everything you need.
Now, would that be overly restrictive?
Would that be an unloving arrangement with your guests?
It'd be very generous wouldn't.
And in effect, that's the arrangement you'll hold the maid without them and Eve.
Now, back to the illustration, if you came into the kitchen and you have found your guest eating
out of that one drawer, you had not given them.
You'd be very upset when you, and you'd probably view it as stealing.
And you likely would put the thieves out of your house.
So that illustrates how Jehovah felt and how Jehovah reacted.
But what a protection being content with what was rightfully hers would have been to Eve.
But now, what about our third great enemy?
The world.
We are relentlessly surrounded by Satan's world and his spirit called the Spirit of the world.
We could say that Jehovah breathes Holy Spirit to influence his people to act like him and be unselfish.
But Satan, in effect, exhales the stinky Spirit of the world.
That makes people act like him in being greedy.
And one way Satan's world promotes greed for material things is by the relentless advertising.
See, people are constantly bombarded with advertisements.
For example, here's just an example.
They may bring out a shiny new car, has about 12 coats of wax on it.
They get all these spotlights shining on it.
They bring in a camera from all different angles.
And about this time, a scantily clothed woman comes strolling out to that automobile.
And you don't even notice it, but there's soft music playing in the background.
As she opens it or gets in, a crescendo is reached in the background music.
You're made to feel you poor poor loser.
If you don't have that car, see?
They don't talk about the heavy payments you're going to have to make.
How many meetings you're going to have to miss to make those payments.
You poor loser, if you don't have that car.
And similar advertising methods are used very often in promoting many other gadgets and material things.
So obviously, we have to fight hard against the Spirit of the world so that we don't allow it to nurture greed in our hearts.
In fact, if we're not careful, our love for Jehovah could be squeezed out by love for money and love for material things.
And if this happens, rather than conquering the world as Jesus did, the world will have conquered us.
Now, it admittedly is a great challenge to fight these three great enemies and avoid as Jesus counseled every sort of greed.
But now think of that.
Jesus indicated not just one sort of greed, one kind of greed.
Greed can take on various faces, manifestations, but we're to guard against all of them.
What would you say is the antidote that can immunize us against the poison of greed?
Well, is it not contentment, see?
For example, one sort of greed, we talked about greed for material things.
Well, contentment will immunize us against this terrible form of greed.
We're familiar with 1 Timothy, chapter 6 and verse 8.
So having food and clothing and the footnote adds shelter, we will be content with these things.
So contentment really protects us.
And in effect, that's what Jehovah was telling Barrett.
He was telling him, you have what you need.
Stop storing up great things or seeking great things.
Be content with what you have and do more important things.
And then he gave a powerful reason.
While Barrett should do this, Jehovah told him in Jeremiah 45-5,
for I'm about to bring a calamity on all flesh.
So if you get the mastery over this, I will grant you your life as a spoil.
Well, the same applies to us, doesn't it?
Jehovah is soon going to bring a calamity on all flesh,
and so we need to be content with what we really need and seek first, the kingdom.
We're just temporary residents, aren't we?
That's what 1 Peter 117 says.
Now, here's an illustration about a temporary resident.
I'd like you to imagine we rent a venue for our regional convention.
Now, you may do a few things to make the stay more comfortable in that venue.
For example, you may do thorough cleaning.
You might do some touch-up painting.
You might repair some broken toilets or light fixtures.
But you would never paint and plaster the entire stadium inside and out.
You wouldn't rip up the seats and put all new seating in.
You wouldn't tear out the parking lot, put in a new parking lot.
Because you know, you're just a temporary resident.
You're going to vacate that place after the weekend.
Now, unlike the illustration, we don't know exactly when we're going to vacate.
But we know it soon.
So we keep a simple, we're just temporary residents.
Another sort of greed, greed for prominence, but being content.
With how generous Jehovah has been and giving us so many privileges,
we'll protect this from this greed.
It would have protected Korah in Moses' time.
Another sort of greed is greedy sexual desire.
If we're single or married, being content with what rightfully belongs to us,
see what really be a protection, it would have protected David from his sin with Bathsheba.
Or there are other sorts of greed, such as gluttony and drunkenness.
But the antidote for all of these is contentment.
Contentment with what is rightfully ours that Jehovah has given to us.
And if we are successful in guarding against every sort of greed,
then we'll be on hand to enjoy the marvelous time when Jehovah will open his hand
and satisfy every proper desire of every living thing.